Divine to work out its working.
Because Divine can go up to a point, that’s
the trouble.
It has no interest in your money, nor in your
position or anything.
It has only one interest: that you should
take to Divine love.
And if you go on accepting something that
is stupid
how can Divine help you?
I have been thinking on these lines all through
and I have talked to some of those who came
to us that, “How is is [that] you never
discovered that they were false gurus?”
They said, “We could see.
There was something in us that was saying
that, ‘There’s something false about this
gentleman.’”
And still, why did you continue?
They said, “Because we were walking in a
dark alley and didn’t know whether we were
walking forwards or backwards and they said,
‘Go on and on and on,’ promising us about
the future.”
And that’s the point.
Because you are futuristic, you are people
who are futuristic, you do not want to believe
that you can get your Realisation today.
You just don’t want to believe it.
You don’t want to listen to that person
who says, “You can get your Realisation
today.”
You want to keep it for the future.
Everything postponed for the future.
And that’s why you go on living with it,
till you are completely finished and wrecked,
when Kundalini cannot rise, when you cannot
get your Realisation.
I think the worst thing this futuristic society
has done to us is that we always postpone
even our Self-realisation.
Can you imagine?
It’s a very sad thing.
This kind of postponement is going to lead
us into great troubles.
The Divine Power today is so active, so activated.
It was never so activated, I can tell you.
Those who are Realised-souls can see that.
At the time of Vedas the Divine Power which
looked like small sparks of light, which you
can see, the Realised-souls can see, was called
as ‘bhargo’, ‘bharga’.
And in the main mantra of Vedas it was written
that, “Make me such that I should be able
to see that bharga, that Divine sparkle, in
the sky,” which Sahaja Yogis can see.
And for that people were willing to sacrifice
anything to get to that state where they could
at least see that.
But today, because of futuristic society,
we’ll also say that, “Alright, we’ll
see it tomorrow, not today.
Leave it for tomorrow.”
Now this power, today, is so very active it
was never that active, it was never that sensitive.
Today that Divine Power is extremely sensitive
and those people who are simple people, who
are not futuristic by temperament, can feel
it.
They are so sensitive to it [that] in a split
of a second you can give Realisation to thousands
of these people.
So, I personally think that one should try
to feel this Divine Power, those who are Realised-souls,
in its all aspects.
And the greatest aspect of it is that, today
it is very active.
It is very active because so many people are
Realised-souls on this Earth.
Because of you.
It is working out things in such a dimension.
I mean, you can see the result of this yourself.
For example, when the Sahaja Yogis got this
ashram they were amazed.
But it’s the blessing of the Divine Power.
You know how knowledgeable it is.
A tree which is a mango tree will have to
give mango fruits.
This power first sprouts the tree, chooses
all of them in such a way that a mango tree
gives a mango.
Any other tree will [also] give the fruit
that it has.
The child is born to a mother.
People have not heard that dogs are born to
human beings.
A human child is born to a human being.
So many forces have been active before but
today the spiritual force is so magnetic and
so great.
And the greatest of work it has done [is to]
bring forth so many seekers in this world.
It’s the Divine force which has brought
all of you on this Earth.
And now the only problem is of guiding them
to the right lines.
Now, the Divine Power [which] can be called
as the ‘Universal Unconscious’ for people
who are not Realised-souls, can give you dreams
and you can understand through dreams the
symbols, if you could, or even clearly see
things by which you can come to Sahaja Yoga.
And you can find your Self-realisation.
But when a person sleeps, in a deep sleep,
he goes to a state called ‘shushupti’.
There he does see many things.
But when he’s returning to consciousness,
that time, there are other layers which cover
you up, your memory.
Here also the futuristic temperament is responsible.
The people who are futuristic have got a very
bad memory.
Their past is cut out and even when they go
into their depth, their memory itself is inactive.
Apart from that the mind of a modern man is
so full of thoughts and ideas.
There’s so much of pressure and load on
his head, that by the time he comes to his
consciousness, all that he has seen in the
dreams becomes to zero and the superficial
dreams of this present day life cover it up.
So that even the glimpse of that is not convincing
or maybe it cannot guide.
The telecommunication system of the Divine
is through dreams, to human beings, but only
the dreams we see in the state of shushupti.
For a Realised-soul it is easy to be in that
state, to remember it, and to forget about
all useless things because he is no more identified
with the mundane things of life, with the
useless things of life.
But the guidance of these dreams, I have seen
some people had these dreams.
In Rome, I was surprised.
In Rome, so many people came to my programme
because they saw me in a dream.
There was an actress who saw me in her dreams
and she came to see me and then she came to
talk to me later on and she told me that,
“Mother I saw you in my dreams.”
And clearly she saw me as something that was
important to her.
The activity of this Divine force is also
marred when we are taking our spiritual life
to some sort of an organised religious form.
Now, any religious form, say Indian religious
form or say an English or say a Christian
religious form, has deviated from reality.
One must accept it.
It’s a fact, whatever you may say.
That churches or temples or all these religions,
which were really meant for Sahaja Yoga today
– there it is.
I have to go and work.
But where are they?
They are going to deny me completely.
Why will they accept me?
If I am the redeemer I have to look after
them isn’t it?
But they are not going to accept me at all.
On the contrary they’ll be against me because
their activities are either money activities
or you can say the other organisational activities
and all these nonsensical activities, which
has no meaning as far as the Spirit is concerned.
So all such people who are extremely overpowered
by these ideas…now just look at the dogmas
that people are fighting for.
Like, I can’t understand that Catholics
and the Protestants are saying that there
are lots of differences.
How can you have when the essence is Christ.
Essence is Christ.
How can you have differences if you believe
in Christ.
At least on that point you cannot have difference.
And once you have all these dogmas covering
you and these differences in you, you are
identified all the time with something that
is really dead, is done by your mental projection,
so whatever this power may try, how far can
you take it?
And from this deadening thing, when you start
to get out of it, you will land up into another
problems like these fake gurus.
And they are on and on and on because for
them it does not matter if somebody is ruined,
somebody is suffering from any diseases, doesn’t
matter at all, it is what they earn out of
you.
So they cheat you today.
If you get out they have another lot which
is willing to be cheated.
They go on and on and on.
They mesmerise you.
They keep you completely under their control.
They brainwash you.
And there is nothing in between: one side
is this darkness of organised ways of looking
at things and another is this kind of mesmeric
imprisonment from where you cannot get out.
Where is the freedom?
And whatever one may try to work out it is
impossible to convince a person who is enslave
with his own will.
Mesmerism is nothing but imprisonment with
your own will.
You have accepted to be mesmerised, you are
accepting it, you are going on and on and
when there is a pull still going on all the
time that there’s something wrong with this
person.
There’s something wrong with this kind of
Christianity and this kind of Hinduism and
this kind of Islam and all those things.
But still you go on with it because you have
accepted that enslavement with your own desire.
It sustains your ego.
You think you have been with it throughout
so you should [continue to] be.
But what about your Spirit?
What about getting your second birth?
That is in future – next life!
This life it’s not possible.
It should not be an impossible task but the
situation is such today that the whole world
is in a trauma, in a shock and the people
who know about the future don’t want to
look at it, in a way, those who really can
see it because it shows horrible things which
can happen to us, the way we are moving.
Those who know about it know it.
And human beings are intelligent enough to
understand that there is something definitely
wrong with our whole system and we have not
been able to correct it.
Also they have reached this state.
They are not ignorant people today.
They are knowledgeable, they understand this.
Whether they are with the science or not,
whether they are with the Churches or not,
in their heart of hearts I am sure there is
a kind of an understanding which makes them
understand [that] this is not the answer.
Definitely they have this idea, I am sure
of every one of them who are still a little
bit left free.
Maybe a priest would not think like that,
but I can’t even think of a priest who would
not think like that, “There’s something
wrong with this system.
I’m [going] on and on with this.
I have been doing it every day, day in and
day out, I’m preaching every day but that’s
not the end.”
I mean, if they are dishonest, if they could
be dishonest to themselves to that extent
I can’t say, but they must be thinking [that]
there is a way out.
But that doubting is killed every moment by
giving a new supply of explanations.
In the science also there are many people
who understand that science is not the end
of everything.
It doesn’t give you answers to everything.
In politics also people realise that it’s
a confusion, you can’t say what is right,
what is wrong.
The other day I was seeing a very peculiar
type of an argument which was really very
foreign to me as an Indian, that they were
discussing whether to keep the children with
the parents or not, how to remove the children,
when to remove, how to delimit.
I mean, I can’t think of an Indian ever
proposing such a thing.
Such a government will go to the dust in India
if you say such a thing that, “We’ll remove
your children from you.”
But that’s a different society, this is
a different society.
But such a confusion between them that [they]
didn’t know whether they should remove the
children from the parents, they didn’t know
whether, if you remove the children, then
are you really going to help the children
or not, if the parents are cruel what’s
going to happen?
I mean, I can’t think of parents being that
cruel.
I cannot think [like that] myself, because
we had no wars.
You had wars, maybe, people have become warmongers.
Still, parents being that cruel that you have
to remove children from them is something
unnatural, absolutely unnatural, because nature
has given you children and nature has given
you that love and how is it that in between
these two natural things some sort of an unnatural
happening is taking place?
But it is happening and these confusions only
make it possible for me to say that, in this
confusion only, man is doubting today, “Is
this the meaning of our lives?
Is it what we are seeking?”
We have to be honest about it.
If this doubt is there then maybe the Divine
Power can work it out I am sure.
But they don’t want to listen about it,
they don’t want to know about it, they are
not bothered about it.
They are going the way they have been going,
they are very happy.
They say, “We are not seekers.”
What does that mean that they are not seekers?
Are they satisfied with themselves?
Do we like the way we live?
But this freedom is not available, is not
available.
If you like the way you live, you may have
cancer, who knows.
You may have any disease.
You may get mental problems.
If not, your wife may divorce you, your children
may leave you.
I mean there are immediate problems which
you may face, you do not know what’s happening
today and what’s going to happen tomorrow.
For example, I know somebody who is a very
nice man and who is not a seeker and he openly
told me, very nicely.
No seeker, alright.
We don’t discuss religion, alright.
And his wife ran away.
So he comes back on God, “Why God is doing
such things?”
I mean, “What have I done that God should
punish me like this?”
On what level are you just now?
You are just thinking of leading a very mundane,
ordinary life, but you cannot.
This freedom is not available under the circumstances.
It’s a time when there is an emergency,
tremendous emergency, in the atmosphere, which
we must understand.
When we talk of the society, the decadent
society, “this is happening,” what is
it?
It means that you are placed in a way, as
if there is [a] plague, and you have to be
careful about it, to find out ways and methods,
the escape of it; where to get it.
You cannot carry on with your mundane type
of life even if you want to because the problems
that are around you, in front of you, at the
back of you, are so many that they will definitely
take charge of you if you do not become your
Spirit.
It is like that.
If they don’t want to hear, alright, but
they must know that there is God’s grace
on this Earth.
My Grandson who was only at that time four
years of age – I don’t know how he knows
so many Sanskrit words – he came to me [and
said] that, “It’s most surprising that
people don’t know that there is God’s
grace working out everything.”
He has told me.
In Sanskrit it is ‘anukampa’.
That, “God’s anukampa is there, they don’t
know.
What do you say to this?
They don’t know.”
He’s a Realised-soul, he’s a born Realised-soul,
no doubt.
But still [he’s] a little child, you know.
He said, “They don’t know.”
And he had that compassion, “Because they
don’t know they are punished.”
He had that sort of a feeling that, “They
are blind and that’s why they are punished.
They don’t know.”
But he doesn’t know that they don’t want
to know also.
And why they don’t want to know is the second
enquiry we should come up to.
The other day we had dinner with some very
big leaders of your country.
Labour leaders and Conservative leaders and
all that.
And I was surprised that they were amazed
when I told them that I am a happy person.
They said, “We are not.
How can you be happy?”
I said, “I am not only happy but I live
in joy.”
They said, “How can that be?
We don’t know what joy is.”
So I said, “Would you like to know?”
They said, “No!” (laughter) They also
told me, “In this country we don’t discuss
religion.”
I said, “It’s no question of religion.
I am just talking about joy.”
“No!”
And what they were discussing among themselves,
I must say, was something, I mean I don’t
know how to and intelligent man this gossip
business and this and that…All sorts of
things they were discussing which had no relationship
to their status or to their position in life
or to anything whatsoever.
I was wondering, “How are these great people?”
When you reach near them you find they are
so small, so mundane.
There’s no subtlety in them.
They don’t want to know about it perhaps
because they are frightened.
They are frightened to know that there is
something higher than that.
And this fear comes from ignorance, complete
ignorance.
Because that is the area of full joy, complete
bliss and peace.
All the nations have to rise to that so that
there’s no fear, there’s no war.
The war is because we are not integrated people.
Individually we are not integrated.
Like we’ll eat the food which doesn’t
suit our body, we’ll desire for something
which doesn’t suit our mind.
We are so disintegrated.
We live in seven personalities, fight with
each other.
And when these seven personalities get together
we have collective fighting going on.
So, the confusion comes from within and from
without and in this confusion only, I think
human beings must seek.
Now the stage has come where I have to tell
people, “Please seek!
For heaven’s sake seek God!”
Christ has said that, but people don’t understand.
They’ll stand on the pulpit and read out
that Christ has said you must seek and you
have to have your second birth.
After that a big lecture follows – finished!
These things are of very vital importance
today.
If they are neglected nations after nations
will be destroyed.
Nations after nations.
It’s definite.
The time is so short that’s why Realisation
has to be quick.
We cannot postpone it [until] tomorrow.
I can do the same trick.
Christina wrote to me, “Mother, we should
never give realisation on the first [day].
If you give on the first day they’ll never
turn up second day.
You tell them, ‘Today is very difficult.’
Then next day you just raise Kundalini up
to one chakra and keep it hanging there.
Keep them hanging, never give them Realisation.
Then reach the last stage when you are sure
that they are the seekers.
Otherwise it is like throwing pearls before
the swines.”
This exactly she has written to me.
Of course I can’t do it because I see the
emergency, I see what’s going to happen.
So many will be thrown away from the grace
of God.
So we have to work it out.
Because those today who are refusing will
come to me I know at a very later stage when
it will not work out.
The clicking of the mass Realisation will
only work out if the seeking on your part
is also of that magnitude.
Otherwise, if there is a light and [it’s]
kept under the table, how can it spread?
You have to be prepared to get the masses.
But how?
Is the problem.
The people in charge of all communications
on this worldly life, I don’t know what
they are seeking.
They discuss all other nonsensical things
but they don’t want to talk about Sahaj
Yog.
And the whole problem with me is [that] I
can’t understand human beings on that level.
I just can’t understand.
How can they postpone it when they know it
is evident, it is coming?
It’s going to work out on them and they
are going to face the greatest difficulties,
very soon.
It’s going to work out through their children,
through their families, through societies,
through nations.
And this universal understanding has to become
a collective understanding, then only, what
the Divine Power is doing on its part will
work out.
Otherwise it is useless.
You cannot blame God for that.
It’s nice to blame God for everything.
What about thinking about yourselves [and]
what you are up to?
It’s true Kundalini awakening is a very
difficult thing.
It’s not easy to awaken the Kundalini, no
doubt.
One had to work for days together, for years
together, they said even lives together.
They had to go on cleansing themselves and
then clearing out themselves for years and
years and years and then the guru would raise
your Kundalini.
It’s a fact.
But today the emergency has come and the Divine
Power understands that this emergency is there.
People have to get Realisation.
That is how you are placed, in a very precarious
way.
I do not know when people in charge of human
beings will realise.
They are supposed to be in charge, but up
to what point?
Up to what point?
They have to realise that, if they do not
accept their evolution, all those who are
following them up and thinking them to be
their leaders and ideals are blocked by their
nonsensical lives that they are leading.
But it’s hard because, as it is, to be leaders
means that you must have big egos.
And they don’t think that there is anything
like God also.
Just they use God because by that they can
impress people.
But there is no real understanding about God’s
ways.
As it is Sahaja Yoga is doing a lot of work
in this country.
I can see that.
And the people I have got are really beautiful
people.
They have become dynamic now.
They are wonderful.
But I must say we are very few compared to
the population of this place and compared
to the importance of England, which is the
heart of the universe.
We have to have many more and not only that
but we have to have much deeper Sahaja Yogis
who will go deep into themselves and would
spread out and get more people to Sahaja Yoga.
I don’t want to talk about Kundalini again.
Every time I have been repeating about it.
You’ve got the books, you can see the new
people who have come.
Today I think there are very few new people
but those who are there should come in front,
without any fears or reservation.
One should not feel bad if we say, “You
come forward.”
There is no show going on here.
If you have come here for your Realisation
you must come forward and get your Realisation.
It’s not another kind of a lecture that
is going on.
We do not ask you to pay any money or anything,
because you are deserving cases, because you
want your Realisation.
Like sensible people you must get your Realisation.
Now you may say that, “We have come just
to see and we have gone away.”
This is an ego-trip I personally think.
There’s no spying going on here.
Have you come to spy here?
Or why have you come?
Are you from the newspaper?
We have nothing to do with newspapers either.
If you have come for your Realisation you
should come and get it.
It’s a simple thing.
If you just want to sit here you disturb the
vibrations of other people; you do not know
that.
A person who doesn’t want Realisation is
no good for us and is troublesome and it irritates
the good vibrations that are here.
The Deities don’t like that.
So I would request you not to feel afraid
of it.
There’s nothing to be afraid.
There’s nothing to be angry.
And don’t get into any ego-trips.
Just get your Realisation.
That is very important: for which you cannot
pay.
But that doesn’t give you a right to assert
yourself the way you want to be.
You have to little bit understand that this
is a place, not Caxton Hall, but is a temple,
where you have to get the blessings.
If you don’t want to have it it’s an insult,
so you better go.
If you are here for not having it, it’s
better not to come.
It’s better not to insult.
At least you should be so kind as not to insult.
There is a way, of course, of telling people,
because you must know that people don’t
like it if you tell them like that.
But you have come here for your Realisation
and for nothing else.
It is my ardent desire, has been that the
whole of this country should become Realised.
Because I think it is one of the leading countries.
It can change lots of things.
But it is too much to expect, I believe, now.
I have spent eight years.
And from my experience I feel that this country
has lost it’s moorings.
It has lost it’s depth.
It runs after things which are very superficial.
They were known for their scholarship, for
going into the details of the things, for
finding out about rights and wrongs.
And today I find the whole thing has become
nothing but a matter of discussion and talking
and showing off.
There is no heart in it.
This is the heart and if the heart fails the
whole universe is going to suffer.
To work it out we have tried everything.
Whatever people have said I have accepted.
If they have said, “Mother, you have to
advertise,” I said, “Advertise, do what
you like, the way you want to do it you can
do it.”
We have tried everything but also, as I said,
it can go to an extent; it has its own maryadas,
its own boundaries, then it recedes.
If you have any questions please ask me.
Today I’m in a preparation mood because
if you know there’s a big event coming and
that was such a big event on this Earth.
I don’t know how people have forgotten everything
and just, the crucifixion has become a symbol
of showing off.
It’s very sad.
It’s a very sad thing.
If you have any questions please ask me.
Ask some questions.
Seeker: (inaudible)
Shri Mataji: Did you hear him?
Come here, please, come forward.
Seeker: (inaudible)
Shri Mataji: No, no.
You see, I know the question.
You sit down, I’ll tell you.
This question has been asked many a times,
that: “Once you feel the cool breeze are
you a Realised-soul?”
Once you are born as a human being you are
human being, isn’t it?
Then you don’t become an animal.
But you can, if you again go on living with
other animals, you can.
Supposing a human being becomes friendly with
monkeys, he’ll start behaving like monkeys.
But if he lives with human beings and develops
himself and matures himself then he becomes
a good, matured human being.
For a human being to be alright he has to
learn the ways and methods of the sustenance
of his human qualities.
Every human being who walks about is not a
human being according to me.
Some of them are monkeys, some of the are
donkeys.
Yes, to me they look like that, without their
outer appearances, the way they talk, the
way they behave, the way they are.
And some of them are like jackals and things
like that.
Some are so aggressive and some are so secretive
just like scorpions and like other animals
which just crawl up; from some hole they’ll
appear.
You see, all these things are so dominantly
there that, though they have got the human
form, that [their] past is so dominantly there
that you see nothing but a snake coming out
from somewhere and just hissing at you.
So when you touch it, what do you touch?
You touch this Divine Power which is surrounding
you.
That is the cool breeze you are feeling.
Just you have touched it now.
But your past is so great and you are identified
with so many other things.
And there are so many other problems with
you that you have to come out of it completely.
Like, as I have said, the egg has to become
the bird.
Now once the egg is broken, it must be a bird
inside otherwise it won’t break, but the
bird has to come out of the egg fully, otherwise
it’s stuck with all the things that are
in the egg.
So some of the Sahaja Yogis have been who
just came out and flew, spread their wings
beautifully.
I have seen that.
But some are still sticking on because some
of them think that Sahaja Yoga is here to
solve their physical problems or their family
problems or their somebody’s problems.
You see, they are stuck up!
I have seen people will bring all the family
people who are suffering from cancer if I
cure one cancer patient; I mean, [if] a cancer
is cured automatically, supposing, of somebody.
Then he goes and brings…there was in Poona,
I gave Realisation to one fellow and his angina
was cured and the doctor said, “You are
completely cured!”
So he got at least twelve people who were
suffering from all kinds of diseases.
Imagine, he had only twelve patients around.
Otherwise he would have taken me to the hospital.
And then, naturally, he loses his vibrations
because that’s not the way [to progress].
You are just coming up, you have just touched
outside, you are just out of the water, just
breathed once, but that is what is Self-realisation.
It’s not self-recognition as yet, it’s
only Self-realisation.
But recognition starts when you start understanding
what this power is, how far you can go with
it, what you can do it, how many people you
can give Realisation to.
[Only] then you become a Sahaja Yogi, you
are not a Sahaja Yogi [before that].
I have known some people who are born Self-realised,
good for nothing, absolutely useless people.
They feel my vibrations, just as soon as they
enter the room they’ll feel my vibrations
– so what?
They are thoroughly useless people.
Now we have decided not to tell anyone that
they are born-realised because their heads
go off.
Can you imagine?
Even Self-realised people have this problem
of ego.
You have to outgrow.
It’s just the connection [that] is established
with the Self.
But still the connection is so weak.
Alright?
That is what it is.
You have to grow.
But even touching that connection, itself,
was a very difficult thing.
But because it was difficult, people used
to stick onto it.
Because it is easy today they just take it
for granted.
But one has to do it fast, that’s all – I
can’t help it.
I know it has a reaction.
But I have known people who got Realisation,
they just said, “That’s it!”
– Finished!
It’s like you are standing in the water
and there are waves and you are frightened
of the waves but somebody is dragging you
onto a boat, you are not in the boat yet,
you have touched the boat, you are just coming
up.
But you want to live with the crocodile as
well.
So the thing is going on.
One foot in the crocodile’s mouth and one
hand on the boat.
But some just jump into it and then they see
the waves, and they are not bothered, “These
are waves, after all we are in the boat!”
Alright?
So it depends on the quality of a seeker,
very much.
Because the quality is now to be improved,
after Self-realisation.
It doesn’t matter: whatever is the quality
you shouldn’t mind.
Whatever is the quality can be improved.
No problem!
Alright?
May God bless you.
Are you alright now or not?
So you give up all your personal problems.
Forget about them.
You are so much shocked because you have come
from and Indian family, but these problems
will never shock English people.
Because it’s very common and mundane.
You come home and you find your wife is disappeared.
It’s very common, nothing wrong in it (according
to them).
You see you are free to do what you like.
So you should not be so much shocked about
it and worried about anything like that.
Alright?
If you have come to this country you must
know [that] you have to pay for it!
(laughing) Isn’t it?
I mean, you may gain something in money but
you may lose your wife or someone, can’t
say.
Yes, that’s very true.
You see you have to.
It’s very difficult.
You can’t trust anyone in this respect here.
Suddenly you will find you neighbour walking
into your room and settling down there as
the husband of your wife.
It’s quite possible.
So this is what it is and one should not be
shocked about it now.
I have reached that conclusion now.
I tell all the Indians from abroad not to
have any cultural shocks.
They should be quite prepared for it or they
should not stay here – finished.
We have other shocks and they have other types
of shocks, you see.
So, to get out of all these things, one has
to know that, by coming to England, you have
gained your Realisation, and get to it.
That’s the main thing.
Is that the most important thing for you?
Is it?
If it is the most important thing then you
have got it.
But you should make it the most important
also.
Alright?
That’s how it is going to work out: make
it as the most important thing, then you will
be in joy.
And you must spend it.
If you have got your Self-realisation you
have to give Realisation to others, isn’t
it?
And it’s so nice that Indians get it so
fast.
That’s also a great thing.
You should be thankful that you get it so
fast compared to others.
Alright?
May God bless you.
Now what else is the question?
You see it’s a very complicated life here,
one must understand, and in this complication
there are problems no doubt.
That’s why the Realisation works like that.
You see, it moves with a snails pace, where
it’s a jet age.
Yes please?
Seeker: (inaudible)
Shri Mataji: Great.
What a nice question.
He wants to know the relationship between
the Self and the Divine Power of God.
It’s such a nice question but requires at
least half an hour.
Self is the reflection of God within us, which
is the Spirit, which resides in our heart,
normally.
And the Divine Power is the power of God which
is his love, which desires, activates, creates
and evolves.
It evolves human beings after creating them,
to such a point that they can feel this power
through the connection of the Spirit.
When you get connected to the Spirit then
only you can feel this power around you, before
that you do not feel anything.
Because the one that can feel this power is
your Spirit but the Spirit in the human consciousness
is not conscious [this] means you cannot feel
it on your central nervous system.
But once you are Realised it starts acting
in your central nervous system and that’s
why you can feel it all around you.
Alright?
I made it (the answer) rather short but in
one of my lectures of Creation you might be
able to understand it better.
May God bless.
You see they say that there is All-pervading
Power, everybody says that, isn’t it, in
every scripture.
But how do you know?
In Vedas they have said about Bharga, they
have talked about Bhargo.
So you can imagine, even that time they knew
there is Divine Power around us.
But how can you see it?
How can you feel it?
That means human level is not sufficient.
You have to rise up to a certain higher level
and that level is where you become the Spirit
and Spirit is the Collective Being within
you.
That’s the collective, that’s the connecting
line.
I cannot give any example because it’s such
an absolute thing.
It cannot be relative.
But something that exists within you which
is collectively connected, part of the collective,
which is conscious of it’s collectivity.
And once you get connected you get collectively
conscious, not only that but your central
nervous system gets activated [this] means
it has a greater dimension in itself and you
start feeling the All-pervading Power.
You can start feeling the vibrations of another
person.
You can see in that person where is the problem
and you can see in yourself where is the problem
by feeling it on your fingers.
This should happen to you.
If this does not happen to you all other things
are useless.
This is what it is, what Christ has said,
what everybody has said, and if it is not
happening [there’s] no use going to church
on every Sunday.
No use, it’s just a waste of time.
No use ringing the bells or singing the praise
of God or anything – it’s all useless.
If you cannot get to that, that means the
ladders are wrong, you are climbing the wrong
ladders.
Alright?
So any other question from Sahaja Yogis will
be a good idea.
(Break in audio.
Yogi probably asks question about family and
giving Realisation to them but it’s not
on the audio.)
Shri Mataji: Now you see, you have to Decide
like this: if he’s not – give him up.
Because he’s your family so it’s an accident
[that he got Realisation].
Just forget it!
Don’t waste your energies with these people.
Christ has said clearly, “Don’t throw
pearls before some people.”
Alright?
So that’s what it is.
If he is a seeker then it’s a different
point.
No use breaking your head against a wall.
But if he is a seeker, alright, then you can
work it out in your own ways, if you know
about Sahaja Yoga, how to work it out.
A seeker may be alright.
I mean, we have had such experiences of family
people, very absurd, you know.
You just don’t know.
There was a gentleman who came to see me who
was the father of one of the Sahaja Yogis.
I gave him Realisation.
And he is a drunkard, and he gave up his drinking
for some time, but his wife said, “What
is this?
This is not our culture!
We have to have drinking otherwise how are
we to entertain people?” or whatever it
is.
He was again drawn into that society.
So, just imagine, to say, “This is our culture!”
(laughing).
Again drawn into the same society.
And she’s a big Catholic!
And she said, “You must confess your sins!”
And one of the sins he must have confessed
[is] that he got his Realisation, I am sure!
And then, so much so that he lost everything,
and he’s a drunkard now.
He sleeps and gone.
Now the son and the daughter who are great
Sahaja Yogis today, have given them up, finished!
How far can you go with them?
Do you see the point?
So, under the circumstances, one should find
out if he is a seeker.
If he is not a seeker, no use talking to him
about anything whatsoever.
It’s a waste.
I tell you it’s a waste.
But I have seen [that] non-seekers are very
much attracted towards people who have superficial
things and they have a pompous show and things.
They are very much attracted.
And they will ruin their lives like that.
And how far can you go with them?
I mean, you should try but what can you do?
Like, another Sahaja Yogini, she had a son
who became like a criminal personality.
Then she said, “Mother, how to give him
Realisation?”
I said, “No forget it!
Now if the police is arresting him, what can
you do?
Give up!”
That I said, that, you can go up to a point,
up to an extent, but beyond that you cannot
force people to be Realised, you cannot.
They have to get it themselves, they have
to ask for it.
There’s a protocol of the Divine Power.
You cannot fall at their feet.
After all, for what?
It is for their gain, not for our gain.
We don’t take any money, nothing of the
kind.
We are doing it for their gain.
They should ask for it, isn’t it.
Or should we fall at their feet, “Take your
Realisation!
Take your Realisation!”
Is it expected?
That’s going too far.
So forget about such people who do not care
for Realisation.
Forget it!
If you think you can bring them round, well
and good, otherwise don’t go too far otherwise
you will lose your vibrations I can tell you.
You will lose your Realisation.
That happens.
But I must say, Sahaja Yogis are very sensible.
Any other question?
Are you still involved in your family so much?
Are you still very much involved?
Yogini: (inaudible)
Shri Mataji: Your husband?
If it comes from a wife they’ll not have
it.
That’s another point about men.
You better try it through some other Sahaja
Yogis.
You see, men are such that, if it comes from
the wife they may not have it.
Yes, it’s true.
So better try some other Sahaja Yogis to talk
to him.
If he is a seeker you should try, otherwise
forget it.
When you were married you were not a Realised-soul
so it’s alright.
If you believe in many lives, how many times
you must have been married before also?
(laughing)
Yes, any other question please?
Gavin: Is there anything we can do to increase
the vibrations?
Shri Mataji: Actually Gavin, I feel here everybody
is not a Sahaja Yogi, and this we should discuss
separately because this will be another secret
working we’ll have to do.
So I think we’ll do it next time when I
meet you in the ashram.
Will that be alright Gavin?
Because what we can do, we can do a lot.
I think you people can do a lot, no doubt,
and that’s how I had exactly in my mind
to tell you but I just wanted to see.
I feel today, it would be not very good because
the people who are here may be new and you
know how they get shocked if you tell them
anything like that.
Of course, nothing that you are going to do
that is any way wrong or anything, but they
won’t understand, I mean to say.
Our terminology is different from theirs and
they are absolutely new so they won’t understand
our terminology when we say about bandhans
and this and that, so it’s better to discuss
it amongst Sahaja Yogis only where one can
understand all the terminology, otherwise
they’ll be quite shocked thinking that this
is another language we are speaking.
About the new people who have got Realisation
and have been here for more than three times
should come to our programme on the seventh,
will be a good idea.
Those new people who have got Realisation
and who have been to the programme three times
should come to the new ashram on the seventh
of April.
I hope you know the address of the new ashram.
Who are like that?
People who are new and who have got Realisation.
You touched your Realisation the other day.
No?
You did.
And you have been coming to our programmes,
so you please come.
Alright?
Who else?
Yes please come, if you don’t mind.
This gentleman has come today?
Is he feeling the cool breeze?
Are you feeling the cool breeze.
Seeker: Not yet.
Shri Mataji: Alright.
It will work out.
And have you come for the first time today?
Alright.
Just put your hands towards me.
Just like this.
Let’s see.
You all have to feel the cool breeze.
If you don’t feel the cool breeze then we
cannot talk about it.
You have to feel the cool breeze, the All-pervading
Power.
Unless and until that has happened we cannot
say we have touched it.
But so many will not feel on the hand in the
beginning.
So we should see that it comes out of your
head, from the brahmarandhra, is the fontanelle
bone area.
If there is a cool breeze coming out of your
head from here then you should know that you
have touched it.
Now please put both the hands towards me and
close your eyes.
Just close your eyes.
Put both the hands towards me and both the
feet on the ground, touching the ground.
Just put your, both, the hands.
Just close your eyes.
Come here, come, come here.
There’s a place here.
Come along!
Him also, if he could come here, will be a
good idea.
This gentleman at the end Gavin, he’s come
for the first time.
It’s better.
Just put your hands like this and please close
your eyes.
Please close your eyes.
Yes, please come forward, come forward.
Will be a good idea.
See?
As we have to see that you get it.
It is the becoming which is important, it’s
not just giving a lecture, you have to become.
If you do not become then it has no meaning.
It’s the becoming that is important.
Please.
Please come.
It’s good.
We have to see that you get it.
That’s our main interest and concern, nothing
else!
Do come all of you please.
Please come forward.
Very sweet.
Come along, make yourself comfortable.
Come along.
Please come, there’s a seat here.
Just join, here there’s a seat, come along.
Sit down.
Put your both the hands.
Close your eyes, close your eyes.
Don’t keep your eyes open.